From _Coders at Work_

Thompson: I write mostly in C. I do all my test stuff and toy stuff in C while
Google is C++, strictly C++. It’s no big deal programming in C++, but I don’t
like it. I resist it.

Seibel: You were at AT&T with Bjarne Stroustrup. Were you involved at all in the
development of C++?

Thompson: I’m gonna get in trouble.

Seibel: That’s fine.

Thompson} I would try out the language as it was being developed and make
comments on it. It was part of the work atmosphere there. And you’d write
something and then the next day it wouldn’t work because the language changed.
It was very unstable for a very long period of time. At some point I said, no,
no more.

In an interview I said exactly that, that I didn’t use it just because it
wouldn’t stay still for two days in a row. When Stroustrup read the interview he
came screaming into my room about how I was undermining him and what I said
mattered and I said it was a bad language. I never said it was a bad language.
On and on and on. Since then I kind of avoid that kind of stuff.

Seibel: Can you say now whether you think it’s a good or bad language?

Thompson: It certainly has its good points. But by and large I think it’s a bad
language. It does a lot of things half well and it’s just a garbage heap of
ideas that are mutually exclusive. Everybody I know, whether it’s personal or
corporate, selects a subset and these subsets are different. So it’s not a good
language to transport an algorithm—to say, “I wrote it; here, take it.” It’s way
too big, way too complex. And it’s obviously built by a committee.

Stroustrup campaigned for years and years and years, way beyond any sort of
technical contributions he made to the language, to get it adopted and used. And
he sort of ran all the standards committees with a whip and a chair. And he said
“no” to no one. He put every feature in that language that ever existed. It
wasn’t cleanly designed—it was just the union of everything that came along. And
I think it suffered drastically from that.

Seibel: Do you think that was just because he likes all ideas or was it a way to
get the language adopted, by giving everyone what they wanted?

Thompson: I think it’s more the latter than the former.

Seibel: It seems there are a lot of people who say, “Gosh, C++ is terrible.” Yet
everyone uses it. For instance, it’s one of Google’s four official languages.
Why do folks continue to use it if it’s so bad?

Thompson: I don’t know. I think it’s losing at Google. Now there are more people
who don’t like it than like it.
